TITLE: India confirms delivery of S-400 missiles from Russia






India has confirmed the dispatch of a fourth set of S-400 missiles from Russia as part of a $5.43 billion deal.

The deputy chief of air staff, Air Marshal Awadhesh Kumar Bharti, said on Thursday the next set of S-400 Triumf air defense systems meant for the Indian Air Force (IAF) has been sent, and that “we should be having [it] with us within a month,” Bharti said.

The fifth and final units are due by the end of 2026, he added.





🚨🇷🇺🇮🇳 BREAKING: Russia to deliver next S-400 batch to India next monthFinal units due by end of 2026, says Indian Air Marshal.India procured five S-400 squadrons in total as part of 2018 deal.pic.twitter.com/uzX8QDojKR

India signed a pact in 2018 to procure five S-400 systems, one of Russia’s most advanced anti-aircraft weapons.

IAF officials completed the pre-dispatch inspection of the inbound S-400 system by April 18, Hindustan Times (HT) reported.

The agreement to purchase the advanced S-400 surface-to-air missile systems was reached despite the threat of sanctions from the US.

New Delhi has already approved the purchase of five more S-400 systems, which have a target range of 400 km.

The S-400 played a major role during Operation Sindoor, a military standoff with Pakistan in May year, according to Indian officials. The system was praised by Prime Minister Narendra Modi when he traveled to one of the military bases following the ceasefire.

Pakistan reportedly moved all its functioning fighters and aerial platforms to its Quetta and Peshawar bases to avoid Indian missiles during Operation Sindoor, Hindustan Times reported.

The inbound units will be deployed along the South Asian country’s Western border with Pakistan, The Print reported in April.

The fifth S-400 system is likely to be deployed in the middle-sector with China, the HT report said.

New Delhi is also looking to establish a maintenance, repair, and overhaul (MRO) facility for the S-400 by the private sector.

The Indian military on Thursday released a documentary showcasing rare footage and images of Operation Sindoor – including war-room planning, precision strikes, and fighter jet deployments.

Defense expert Air Marshal Anil Chopra in his column for RT argued that the S-400 served as India’s “shield” in Operation Sindoor, while BrahMos missiles – developed as part of an India-Russia joint venture – were its “most feared sword.”

Approximately 60% of India’s current military inventory traces its lineage to Russian or Soviet-origin design.
