TITLE: Israeli strikes devastate Lebanese cities despite ceasefire (VIDEOS)


Israeli strikes have damaged buildings in Beirut’s southern suburbs and hit a commercial site in southern Lebanon despite a ceasefire, according to two videos shared by Ruptly on Thursday.

One video showed damage in Bourj al-Barajneh in the Beirut area, where what looked like a market was hit, with several nearby buildings reduced to rubble and at least one residential block heavily damaged. It was unclear which buildings were struck in the latest barrage and which had been damaged in earlier Israeli attacks.

“When the first warning arrived, we ran with our clothes,” local resident Hassan Mustafa Harb told Ruptly. “When things calmed down, we returned to our home here and found this massive destruction.”

A second video showed damage on the outskirts of Al-Saksakiyeh in the southern Tyre district, where an attack struck a commercial center. Footage showed smoke rising from debris, wrecked cars, fires still burning, blood stains on the ground, and abandoned belongings.

Eyewitness Youssef Younes said he scrambled for safety when he heard a drone fire a missile. “It was either a warning strike, or the missile did not explode,” he told Ruptly. “Moments later, we came back here to see what had happened, and then the heavy shelling began. Four or five people who were passing along the road were killed.”

Younes said the site was a commercial area with a carpentry workshop and clothing stores. “It contains no weapons or anything else,” he said. At the same time, he vowed to continue fighting Israel. “Even if we are all killed, even if we are torn into pieces, that will not deter us from the path of resistance. This is our approach and principle, and we will not abandon it.”

Israeli Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu stated he had personally approved a strike on Beirut, which he said targeted a commander in Hezbollah’s elite Radwan Force.

His remarks came despite Israel and Lebanon agreeing to a ceasefire as part of a wider US truce with Iran. Israel, however, said it would continue taking “all necessary measures in self-defense” against Hezbollah. Israel also continues to occupy parts of southern Lebanon, with the Jewish state and Hezbollah exchanging accusations of violating the ceasefire’s terms.

Since the escalation in the Middle East in late February, Israeli strikes on Lebanon have killed more than 2,700 people, with thousands more wounded.
