TITLE: NASA Sets Coverage for Northrop Grumman’s CRS-24 Resupply Launch


4 min read

Jessica Taveau

Editor’s Note: This advisory was updated on April 8, 2026, to reflect the latest launch details. The advisory also was updated with the latest arrival and capture times for the April 11 launch opportunity.

Editor’s Note: This advisory was updated on April 7, 2026, to reflect the latest launch, arrival, and coverage details.

NASA, Northrop Grumman, and SpaceX are targeting no earlier than 7:41 a.m. EDT on Saturday, April 11, for the next launch delivering science investigations, supplies, and equipment to the International Space Station.

Filled with approximately 11,000 pounds of cargo, the Northrop Grumman Cygnus XL spacecraft, aboard a SpaceX Falcon 9 rocket, will launch from Space Launch Complex 40 at Cape Canaveral Space Force Station in Florida. The mission is known as NASA’s Northrop Grumman Commercial Resupply Services 24, or Northrop Grumman CRS-24.

Watch the agency’s launch and arrival coverage on NASA+, Amazon Prime, and the agency’s YouTube channel. Learn how to watch NASA content through a variety of online platforms, including social media.

Following launch, astronauts aboard the space station will use the Canadarm2 robotic arm to capture the Cygnus XL on Monday, April 13, before ground controllers install it to the Unity module’s Earth-facing port for cargo unloading.

Highlights of space station research and technology demonstrations being delivered aboard this Cygnus XL spacecraft include:

Media interested in speaking to a science subject matter expert should contact Sandra Jones at sandra.p.jones@nasa.gov.

The spacecraft is scheduled to remain at the orbiting laboratory until October before departing with several thousand pounds of trash and burning up harmlessly during re-entry.

Northrop Grumman named the spacecraft the S.S. Steven R. Nagel in honor of the former NASA astronaut who flew four space shuttle missions, logging more than 720 hours in space.

NASA’s mission coverage is as follows (all times Eastern; subject to change based on real-time operations):

Saturday, April 11

7:20 a.m.: Launch coverage begins on NASA+, Amazon Prime, and YouTube.

7:41 a.m.: Launch

Monday, April 13

12 p.m.: Arrival coverage begins on NASA+, Amazon Prime, and YouTube.

12:50 p.m.: Capture

NASA website launch coverageLaunch day coverage of the mission will be available on the NASA website. Coverage will include live streaming and blog updates beginning no earlier than 7:20 a.m. April 11 as the countdown milestones occur.

On-demand streaming video on NASA+ and photos of the launch will be available shortly after liftoff. For questions about countdown coverage, contact NASA’s Kennedy Space Center in Florida newsroom at 321-867-2468. Follow countdown coverage on our International Space Station blog for updates.

Attend launch virtually

Members of the public can register to attend this launch virtually. NASA’s virtual guest program for this mission also includes curated launch resources, notifications about related opportunities or changes, and a stamp for the NASA virtual guest passport following launch.

Watch, engage on social media

Let people know you’re watching the mission on X, Facebook, and Instagram by following and tagging these accounts: X: @NASA, @NASASpaceOps, @NASAKennedy, @Space_Station, @ISS_CASIS

Facebook: NASA, NASAKennedy, ISS, ISS National Lab

Instagram: @NASA, @NASAKennedy, @ISS, @ISSNationalLab

Learn more about the mission at:

https://www.nasa.gov/event/nasas-northrop-grumman-crs-24/

-end-

Josh FinchHeadquarters, Washington202-358-1100joshua.a.finch@nasa.gov

Amanda GriffinKennedy Space Center, Fla.321-876-2468amanda.a.griffin@nasa.gov

Sandra JonesJohnson Space Center, Houston281-483-5111sandra.p.jones@nasa.gov

NASA explores the unknown in air and space, innovates for the benefit of humanity, and inspires the world through discovery.
